Making the Connection-Designer Trees: A Way to Counteract the
Greenhouse Effect
(Biotechnology Manual, pp. -. Copyright by Pearson Education, Inc., publishing as Pearson Prentice
Hall, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey . Prentice Hall)
Earth’s climate has been relatively stable for the last several thousand years. However, there is a new
threat to Earth’s climate: air pollution. Global air pollution has steadily increased in recent decades. The
ecological, economic, and societal costs of air pollution are increasing daily.
Greenhouse Effect
The release of carbon dioxide, or CO, is associated with increasing air pollution. The burning of fossil fuels
and wood and the cutting down of forests have released much carbon dioxide into the air. Since the start of
industrial times there has been a  percent increase in the amount of atmospheric carbon dioxide. During
the same period of time, global temperatures have increased by .°C. Scientists think that the
temperature increase is caused by the release of more carbon dioxide into the air. Because carbon dioxide
molecules in the air help to trap heat, they act like the glass roof of a greenhouse. Consequently, the heat
trapping action of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has been called the greenhouse effect. Current
computer models of the global atmosphere and climate give conflicting information about the world’s future
climate. Nevertheless, in the next  years, the amount of atmospheric carbon dioxide will probably
double. Although atmospheric carbon dioxide levels have changed in the past, they have never doubled in
just  years! Concerned people think it is important to find techniques and propose policies to reduce air
pollution.
Storing Carbon
The cultivation of more woody plants is one possible way to reduce atmospheric carbon dioxide. Plants
need carbon dioxide for photosynthesis. During photosynthesis, plants change carbon dioxide into sugar,
which the plants use for energy. Woody plants convert much of their sugar into wood. Consequently, woody
plants can also store carbon for many years in their woody stems and roots. Because they can store
carbon, woody plants can be considered a kind of carbon bank. The longer a woody plant lives, the longer
it can store atmospheric carbon. So, long-lived trees are excellent for storing carbon. The faster trees grow
and the more forests that are planted, the greater the effect trees could have on slowing the increase of
atmospheric carbon dioxide. But, because forests are being cut down rapidly, more carbon dioxide is being
released into the atmosphere, and the amount of potential carbon storage is being reduced.
Speeding up the Process
Besides growing more trees, another possible way for humans to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in
the atmosphere is by enabling plants to use more carbon dioxide. Normally there is enough carbon dioxide
in the air so that the rate of photosynthesis is not slowed. Usually during photosynthesis, other steps than
the ones of the Calvin cycle limit the rate at which plants can use carbon dioxide. In theory, by finding a
way to speed up the slowest steps, the rate of carbon dioxide uptake should be increased. Making the
sugar-transfer enzymes of a plant work more effectively would be one way to speed up the process of
using sugars. As a result, plants would move sugars faster and produce more cellulose. Consequently
more carbon would be stored.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsEnhancing Sugar Transport
One of the most important enzymes involved in moving sugars in plants is called sucrose phosphate
synthetase. This enzyme catalyzes the reaction between fructose--phosphate and UDP glucose. UDP
glucose, or uridine diphosphate glucose, is an activated form of glucose. When the enzyme links fructose
and glucose together, they form sucrose--phosphate.Sucrose is the sugar that is usually transported in the
sap of woody plants. In theory, plants that have more-active sucrose-forming enzymes should grow faster
than plants with less-active enzymes. Actually, researchers have found that certain plants with more-active
sucrose phosphate synthetase enzymes do grow faster. Consequently researchers can screen plants for
more-active sucrose phosphate synthetase enzymes by studying the seedlings that grow fastest.
Researchers have to consider a second factor when selecting plants to counteract the greenhouse effect.
The chosen plants should be able to grow faster when the carbon dioxide concentration in the air is higher
than normal. So after screening plants for more active sucrose phosphate synthetase enzymes,
researchers also need to screen the plants for the ability to grow fast in the presence of higher levels of
carbon dioxide. After researchers have identified plants with more-active sucrose phosphate synthetase
enzymes, there are still more steps in the process of genetic engineering. Scientists must locate and
remove the gene for the sucrose phosphate synthetase enzyme from the faster-growing plants. Then the
genetic engineers must duplicate the gene many times and insert copies of the gene into seedling plants so
that the plants will grow faster. Through this process, eventually it may be possible to create trees that grow
faster and remove more carbon dioxide from the air.
REVIEW In the space provided, answer the following questions.
Why are some people concerned about the increase in the amount of carbon dioxide in the air?
How might trees be used to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere?
 What does the enzyme sucrose phosphate synthetase do? b. Why is this enzyme important to plants?
What might be done to make trees more effective in storing carbon?
List some steps in the process of genetically engineering trees with the enzyme sucrose phosphate
synthetase.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName:  Period:  Date:
Biochemistry
Draw and label the parts of an atom.
Define the following:
Word
Definition
Atom
Compound
Molecule
Covalent Bond
Ionic Bond
Hydrolysis reaction
Dehydration synthesis
(Condensation reaction)
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsThis page intentionally left blank.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName:  Period:  Date:
Making Golden Models
Wow! You have the Midas touch! Okay. Maybe you are not making gold today, but you are making
very essential compounds that help to sustain many life forms. Your job is to use the model kit and
prepare compounds such as carbon dioxide, glucose, oxygen and water. Your teacher will be able to
tell you which pieces of the kit represent carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. As you prepare the
compounds, take a look at how many bonds carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen each make. Carbon
dioxide, glucose, oxygen, and water are not gold, but why do you think they are golden to some
organisms? You better get started. Some organism might need these compounds pretty soon!
How is the
Organic or
Type of Bond
Compound
Structural Formula
compound used in Inorganic? Justify (polar, non-polar
the human body?
your answer.
or ionic)?
Explain.
Carbon Dioxide
CO
Glucose
CHO
Oxygen
O
Water
HO
Please answer the following questions on water:
Why is water polar?
Why is water so important to living things?
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools.
Fill in the chart:
Macromolecule
Structure
Building
blocks
Function within the
cell
Examples of
Carbohydrate
A) monosaccharide
B) disaccharide
C) polysaccharide
Lipid
Protein
Nucleic Acids
Identify the reactants and products in the following chemical reactions:
 CH + O Æ CO + H
 CO + H Æ. CH + O
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName
 DatePeriod 
Making the Connection-Lactose Intolerance
What is lactose?
Explain why you would classify lactose as a carbohydrate?
Recall that this is a group of organic molecules that is classified by its number of rings. How many
rings does a molecule of lactose have? Based on the number of rings, what is its appropriate
chemical name?
Which foods do you believe contain lactose? Explain.
How is lactose broken down?
If you are or know someone that is lactose intolerant, describe what causes you or the person to be
affected by this disorder.
What are the symptoms of lactose intolerance?
Whom does lactose intolerance mainly affect?
Explain why you believe these specific groups of people are mainly affected by this disorder.
Justify your answer.
What do you think can be done to manage lactose intolerance? Explain.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsThis page intentionally left blank.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName
 DatePeriod 
Making the Connection-Macromolecules and Nutrition
Now that you are an expert on Carbohydrates, Lipids, Proteins, and Nucleic Acids, create a brochure using
one of the major macromolecules that discusses some of the problems that can be caused by these
macromolecules. Your brochure should look very similar to one that you would find in a doctor’s office.
Being the expert that you are, provide detailed information so that readers will be well informed of:
The macromolecules and their building blocks
Foods in which they can be found
Causes, symptoms, possible treatments of the problems associated with the macromolecule
The human body system the problem mainly affects
Multicultural Connection #
 Based on the Africa: Challenges in the st Century video, explain how the African government plays a
role in famine. Using your newly learned knowledge, how are the African citizens affected by lack of
nutrition? What disorders may develop? What can be done to rectify famine in this area of the world?
Justify your answer.
 On a separate sheet of paper, write or type a letter to the United Nations or the newly elected president
expressing your concern for the people of Africa. Explain the biological consequences of the lack of
nutrition (i.e. lack of carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and  vitamins/minerals). Share your recommendations
and any changes you think will make a difference in their lives.
 Bring in an envelope and stamp to mail your letter to the United Nations or the President of the United
States.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsMulticultural Connection #
Let’s take a trip. Get in your seats and buckle up and prepare for takeoff. Are you tired? We just spent 
hours on a plane to Japan. We are here to enjoy the food and the culture. It’s a little chilly, so put on your
jacket. It’s fall. Look at the koyo (red leaves). Are you excited? Great! Let’s get ready for Bunka-no hi
(Culture Day).
Research the culture of Japan (i.e. food, holidays, family structure), the weather, and seasons to write a
one page paper. Give details of the Japanese culture. Describe how it is different from your culture.
Explain the significance of the Cherry Blossom Festival in Washington, DC. In addition, research how tree
leaves lose their color and gain koyo. Go ahead, get started and enjoy your journey!
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName
 DatePeriod 
Cells and Cell Chemistry
Compare a bacterial cell and a human body cell. Include in your response:
 How they are similar and different in structure
 How they are classified ()
Complete the following:
Organelle
Function
Where found (animal, plant,
and/or, prokaryote)
Plasma membrane
Ribosome
Vacuole
Cell wall
Centriole
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsChloroplast
Cytoplasm
Endoplasmic reticulum
Golgi Apparatus
Lysosome
Microfilament/microtubule
Mitochondria
Nucleolus
Nucleus
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools. The cell theory states:Fill in the following Venn diagram with what you know about prokaryotes and eukaryotes.
Prokaryotes
Eukaryotes
Why is the cell membrane selectively permeable?
Discuss the conditions needed to cause water to diffuse into a cell.
Discuss the conditions necessary to cause water to diffuse out of a cell.
Describe what would happen to a red blood cell in each of the following situations:
 It is placed in a solution with a high concentration of salt.
 It is placed in distilled water without any solution.
What are some methods organisms have developed for removing excess water?
What is homeostasis? How is osmosis related to homeostasis?
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools. Osmosis is the movement of  from  concentration to
 concentration.
Diffusion is the movement of  from  concentration to
 concentration.
When a cell is placed in a hypertonic solution, it will  becauseActive transport uses , passive transport uses no , and facilitated
diffusion is a form of  transport.
 Æ Tissues Æ  ÆOrgan Systems
Fill in the blanks with the following terms:
ameoboid
ciliate
flagella
movement
skeletal
The movement of organisms is dependent upon the relationship between its muscle and its
system. The muscles are required to pull the bones in order for movement to occur.
Protozoa are classified according to their method of locomotion, or . One type of
movement is through the twirling or lashing of the , which are long, hair-like structures
on the surface of a cell. Another type of movement is , which is a creeping caused by
pseudopods. The third type of movement is , which is the synchronized beating of
short hair-like projections.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName  DatePeriod 
Photosynthesis and Respiration
Write the photosynthesis equation below:
Write the cellular respiration equation below:
What organelle carries out photosynthesis? 
What organelle carries out cellular respiration? 
Fill in the chart below
Type of
Respiration
What cells it
occurs within
Conditions in which it
occurs
Most energy is produced
Aerobic respiration
Anaerobic respiration
The CO originates in the 
 it is placed in the atmosphere by 
 the process that produces CO is called 
The CO is used by 
 they take CO + sunlight and produce + in their
  (organelle)
 this process is called: 
The cycle in the process of photosynthesis.
The cycle is in the process of respiration.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsThis page intentionally left blank.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName
 DatePeriod 
Enzymes
What is an enzyme? 
What group of macromolecules are enzymes in? 
What is the job of an enzyme? 
List  ways to increase an enzymes activity.
What are enzymes? What is their role in a cell?
An acid is a substance with a pH of , a base is a substance with a pH of
, and a neutral solution has a pH of .
One example of an acid is , a base is , and a neutral solution isWhat two things can cause enzymes to malfunction?  andIn the space provided, draw a graph that represents the effect of enzymes on a reaction that occurs in the
body. Identify the reactants, products, and activation energy.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsThis page intentionally left blank.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName
 DatePeriod 
Cell Division and Genetics
The DNA must replicate before mitosis in order to The DNA shuffles and is cut in half during . This is important
because .
The cell will complete mitosis when making .
The cell will complete meiosis when making .
List four differences between mitosis and meiosis?Summarize how sexual reproduction, which includes meiosis and fertilization, affects genetic variation
within an offspring.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools. Draw a picture of each phase of mitosis for a cell with four chromosomes in the next page. The following
parts need to be labeled where appropriate: centrioles, chromosomes, spindles, nuclear envelope,
cytoplasm, cell membrane, and centromere.
Mitosis phases
Phase
What happens in the phase
Interphase
Prophase
Metaphase
Anaphase
Telophase
Draw and label the phases of meiosis on the next page.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsMITOSIS
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools
MEIOSIS. What are the three components of a nucleotide?
Draw a picture` of the structure of DNA that (at least) includes the terms: base,  sugar, phosphate,
nucleotide, and helix.
Describe DNA fingerprinting using the following terms: electrophoresis, agarose gel, DNA bands,
banding pattern, lane, and DNA fragment.
What do the bands in the gel pattern represent? What causes some bands to move further than other?
Fill in the following chart as you compare/contrast RNA/ DNA.
Characteristic
DNA
RNA
Sugar present
Number of
strands
Location
Job
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsMutations
Mutations and crossovers create different genes and gene sequences. Fill in the chart below about
mutations.
Type of Mutation
Definition
Example
Deletion
Point
Insertion
Protein Synthesis Definitions:
Word
Definition
Codon
Nucleotide
Replication
Anti-codon
Clone
mRNA
tRNA
What is transcription? 
What is translation? 
What is a chain of amino acids called? 
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsThis page intentionally left blank.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName
 DatePeriod 
Meiosis Model
Introduction:
Sexual reproduction requires two parents and involves two processes: meiosis and fertilization.
Meiosis is the process that produces gametes, or sex cells. The gametes produced are haploid, which
means the cells have one copy of each kind of chromosome. For example, if the organism’s chromosome
number is eight, all of the body cells will contain  chromosomes; however its sex cells will contain 
chromosomes. Through fertilization, a diploid cell called a zygote is produced from the union of a haploid
sperm cell (male gamete) and a haploid egg cell (female gamete). Both meiosis and fertilization are
important contributors to genetic variation within an offspring.
Meiosis involves two divisions. The first division, Meiosis I, involves pairing the homologous
chromosomes and then separating the homologues into separate cells (which reduces the chromosome
number by half). Because any cell division is preceded by DNA replication, the second division of meiosis
(Meiosis II) involves the separation of the individual duplicated chromosomes (sister chromatids).
Procedure:
Copy the diagram below onto your poster paper. Each circle represents a cell.
Cell 
Cell 
Cell 
Cell 
Cell 
Cell 
Cell 
Cell 
This organism’s chromosome number is  (n = ). This means each body cell contains two different
homologous pairs. All of the genetic information is found on a total of two chromosomes (chromosome 
and chromosome ). However, each body cell contains two copies of each chromosome, one copy from
mom and the other copy from dad. Choose two similar colors of pipe cleaners for chromosome  (for
example mom chromosome  = pink and dad chromosome  = red). Choose two similar colors of pipe
cleaners for chromosome  (for example mom chromosome  = lavender and dad chromosome  =
purple).
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools. Cell  is the diploid body cell before meiosis begins. Glue the correct number and types of pipe
cleaners into Cell  to show the two pairs of homologous chromosomes.
Before meiosis I begins, the chromosomes replicate. Obtain more pipe cleaners to represent DNA
replication. Glue the correct number and types of pipe cleaners into Cell  to show the replicated
chromosomes. This cell represents the cell during prophase I. The two homologous chromosomes should
line up next to each other to form a tetrad. Crossing-over may occur at this point in the cell cycle.
Illustrate at least one crossing-over event in Cell . Be sure to account for the “new” chromosomes
produced as the result of crossing-over throughout the rest of your model.
Cells  are the two cells produced at the end of meiosis I. Use pipe cleaners to show the correct
number and types of chromosomes present in each cell.
Cells  are the gametes produced after meiosis II. Unlike meiosis I, there is no replication of
chromosomes before the cell divides. There are many different combinations of chromosomes that could
occur during telophase II of meiosis II. Use your pipe cleaners to show how the chromosomes in Cells 
are assorted into Cells .
Analyze and Conclude:
Draw and color the homologous pair for chromosome  and chromosome .
MOM
DAD
CHROMOSOME 
CHROMOSOME 
State whether the chromosome number in each cell is diploid, haploid, or other.
Cell:  Cell : 
Cells :  Cells : 
How many cell divisions occur during meiosis? 
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools. Draw and color a crossing-over event in your tetrad and the resulting chromosome.
CROSSING –OVER IN TETRAD
CHROMOSOMES PRODUCED
Explain how crossing-over increases genetic variation. How do the four gametes produced differ from each other? What are the differences between meiosis I and meiosis II? Are the arrangement of chromosomes in each gamete you produced the only possible combinations?
Why or why not? Below is a diagram of an angiosperm. Shade in the location of meiosis that produces male gametes
blue and female gametes red.
Figure  . http://www.amnh.org/learn/biodiversitycounts/identhelp/PartsPlants/partsofflower.htm
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools. Compare and contrast mitosis and meiosis by completing the table below.
Mitosis
Meiosis
Function of Cells Produced
Number of Cell Divisions
Exchange of Genetic Material
Between Homologous
Chromosomes
Number of Cells Produced
Genetic Make-Up of Cells
Produced
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName Date Pd.
Should This Fish Be Called “Goldy?”
Imagine! A sperm cell, from a male fish, fuses with an egg cell, from a female fish. Each fish gamete
carries  chromosomes. The zygote that results from the fusion of the gametes contains  chromosomes from
each parent. One pair of the zygote’s chromosomes are shown below.
Chromosome from the Female Fish
G
s
L
C
Chromosome from the Male Fish
g
S
L
c
Each chromosome of the homologous pair contains alleles for the same traits. But one chromosome may have a
dominant allele and the other a recessive allele. Use the drawings and the table to answer the questions.
Trait
Dominant Gene
Recessive Gene
Dorsal Fin Texture
Jagged (S)
Smooth (s)
Dorsal Fin Shape
Concave (C)
Convex (c)
Scale Size
Large (L)
Small (l)
Scale Color
Gold (G)
Gray (g)
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools. Will their new fish have gold colored scales? Explain.Does the female fish have gold colored scales? Explain.Does the male fish have gold colored scales? Explain.What will be the texture of the baby fish dorsal fin? Explain.Will the texture of the baby fish dorsal fin resemble that of either of its parents? Explain.Will the baby fish have large or small scales? Does the male fish have large scales? Does the female fish have large scales?Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools. a. Define the term homozygous.
 For which traits is the baby fish homozygous?
 Define the term heterozygous.
 For which traits is the baby fish heterozygous?
Explain why you cannot completely describe the baby fish’s parents even though you can accurately describe
the baby fish.Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsThis page intentionally left blank.
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public SchoolsName
 DatePeriod 
Genetics Definitions
Word
Definition
Allele
Autosome
Dominant
Gene
Genotype
Heterozygous
Homozygous
Phenotype
Recessive
Sex-chromosome
Complete the following Punnett squares. Give the genotype and phenotype of each.
Monohybrid
Cross Tt X TT
Cross a heterozygous right handed person with a left handed person.
Right is dominant over left.
T= tall
t= short
Cross Tt X Tt
Biology High School Assessment Student Resource Book
Prince George’s County Public Schools. Sex-linked
Cross a female who is a carrier for hemophilia ( XHX) with a hemophiliac male (XHY).
Answer the following questions.
In Pisum Sativum, a pea plant, the allele for purple flower (P) is dominant over the allele for white
flowers (p). A cross between two purple-flowered plants resulted in both purple-flowered and whiteflowered offspring, as shown in the table below.
RESULTS OF PEA PLANT CROSS
Flower
Number of
Plants
PurpleWhiteOn a piece of paper, do the following:Draw a Punnett Square that shows the cross between the two purple-flowered parent plants
described above. When writing the allele pairings, underline all lowercase letters (p).Fill in the genotypes of the offspring on the Punnett Square.Make a key to indicate which genotype produces which flower color.